test/upgrade/README.md, before:

# Upgrade Tests

In order to get coverage for the upgrade process from an operator’s perspective,
we need an additional suite of tests that perform a complete knative upgrade.
Running these tests on every commit will ensure that we don’t introduce any
non-upgradeable changes, so every commit should be releasable.

This is inspired by kubernetes
[upgrade testing](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-testing/e2e-tests.md#version-skewed-and-upgrade-testing).

These tests are a pretty big hammer in that they cover more than just version
changes, but it’s one of the only ways to make sure we don’t accidentally make
breaking changes for now.

## Flow

We’d like to validate that the upgrade doesn’t break any resources (they still
respond to requests) and doesn't break our installation (we can still update
resources).

At a high level, we want to do this:

1. Install the latest knative release.
1. Create some resources.
1. Install knative at HEAD.
1. Test those resources, verify that we didn’t break anything.

To achieve that, we just have three separate build tags:

1. Install the latest release from GitHub.
1. Run the `preupgrade` tests in this directory.
1. Install at HEAD (`ko apply -Rf config/core/`).
1. Run the `postupgrade` tests in this directory.
1. Install the latest release from GitHub.
1. Run the `postdowngrade` tests in this directory.

## Tests

### Service test

This was stolen from the conformance tests but stripped down to check fewer
things.

#### preupgrade

Create a RunLatest Service pointing to `image1`, ensure it responds correctly.

#### postupgrade

Ensure the Service still responds correctly after upgrading. Update it to point
to `image2`, ensure it responds correctly.

#### postdowngrade

Ensure the Service still responds correctly after downgrading. Update it to
point back to `image1`, ensure it responds correctly.

### Probe test

In order to verify that we don't have data-plane unavailability during our
control-plane outages (when we're upgrading the knative/serving installation),
we run a prober test that continually sends requests to a service during the
entire upgrade process. When the upgrade completes, we make sure that none of
those requests failed.

Commit message:

Migrate upgrade tests to the new framework (#10216)
* Migrate upgrade tests to using pkg/test/upgrade framework

* Convert AssertAutoscaleUpToNumPods and inner functions to helper
functions that
return error instead of calling t.Fatal to fail the current test.
Avoid using *testing.T
so that these functions can be reused outside of tests or span
multiple tests.
* The autoscaler helper functions are used in upgrade tests where
"setup" and
"verify" phases run within different tests. Pull test.EnsureTearDown
from SetupSvc to ensure
that a kservice is not destroyed at the end of the first phase
("setup") but
remains active until "verify" phase. This is ensured by calling
EnsureTearDown later in the
  "verify" phase.
* Adjust Bash scripts to avoid unbound variable errors during upgrade
tests exexution (due
  to using -u flag by the upgrade framework).

* Use umbrella functions for individual groups of tests

That's for easy reuse in other repos such as knative/operator

* Define curPods and targetPods constants in upgrade tests

* Fix imports and licences

* Fix lint - comments on new exported functions

* Split AssertAutoscaleUpToNumPods into setup and wait parts

* Pass errgroup by reference

* Fix lint error

* Move logf into TestContext

* Remaining fixes for moving logf to TestContext

* Call logf on context directly

* Update readme

* Remove the comment and fix imports

* Update modules after running update-codegen

* Do not upgrade Ingress when upgrading Knative

* autoscale and prober tests will fail if ingress is replaced during
upgrade

* Pass around func() error instead of errGroup

* Mark a few functions as t.Helper()

* Fix codegen

test/upgrade/README.md, after:

# Upgrade Tests

In order to get coverage for the upgrade process from an operator’s perspective,
we need an additional suite of tests that perform a complete knative upgrade.
Running these tests on every commit will ensure that we don’t introduce any
non-upgradeable changes, so every commit should be releasable.

This is inspired by kubernetes
[upgrade testing](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-testing/e2e-tests.md#version-skewed-and-upgrade-testing).

These tests are a pretty big hammer in that they cover more than just version
changes, but it’s one of the only ways to make sure we don’t accidentally make
breaking changes for now.

## Flow

We’d like to validate that the upgrade doesn’t break any resources (they still
respond to requests) and doesn't break our installation (we can still update
resources).

At a high level, we want to do this:

1. Install the latest knative release.
1. Create some resources.
1. Install knative at HEAD.
1. Test those resources, verify that we didn’t break anything.

To achieve that, we utilize the [upgrade test framework](https://github.com/knative/pkg/tree/master/test/upgrade).
The framework runs tests in the following phases:

1. Install the latest release from GitHub.
1. Run the `PreUpgrade` tests.
1. Start the `Continual` tests.
1. Install from the HEAD of the master branch.
1. Run the `PostUpgrade` tests.
1. Install the latest release from GitHub.
1. Run the `PostDowngrade` tests.
1. End the `Continual` tests and collect results.

## Tests

#### PreUpgrade

Create a Service pointing to `image1`, ensure it responds correctly.

#### PostUpgrade

Ensure the Service still responds correctly after upgrading. Update it to point
to `image2`, ensure it responds correctly. Ensure that a new service
can be created after downgrade.

#### PostDowngrade

Ensure the Service still responds correctly after downgrading. Update it to
point back to `image1`, ensure it responds correctly. Ensure that a new service
can be created after downgrade.

### Continual

In order to verify that we don't have data-plane unavailability during our
control-plane outages (when we're upgrading the knative/serving installation),
we run a prober test that continually sends requests to a service during the
entire upgrade process. When the upgrade completes, we make sure that none of
those requests failed. We also run autoscale tests to ensure that autoscaling
works correctly during upgrades/downgrades.
