# Performance tests

Knative performance tests are tests geared towards producing useful performance
metrics of the knative system. As such they can choose to take a blackbox
point-of-view of the system and use it just like an end-user might see it. They
can also go more whiteboxy to narrow down the components under test.

## Load Generator

Knative has a
[load generator library](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/tree/master/shared/loadgenerator)
that can be used to generate load. The load generator uses
[Fortio](https://fortio.org/) for generating load based on the
[generator options](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/blob/master/shared/loadgenerator/loadgenerator.go)
set in the test. The load generator provides the
[generator results](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/blob/master/shared/loadgenerator/loadgenerator.go)
which includes all the data points for the load generation request and any
calculated latencies.

For eg.

```go
opts := loadgenerator.GeneratorOptions{Duration: 1*time.Minute, NumThreads: 1}
resp, err := opts.RunLoadTest(false /* resolvableDomain */)
if err != nil {
	t.Fatalf("Generating traffic via fortio failed: %v", err)
}
```

## Prometheus metrics

Knative provides a
[prometheus wrapper](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/tree/master/shared/prometheus)
that provides methods to wait for prometheus to scrap for the metrics once the
test is finished. It also provides a way to query the prometheus server for any
server-side metrics and then display those in [testgrid](#displaying-metrics)

For eg.

```go
promAPI, err := prometheus.PromAPI()
if err != nil {
	logger.Errorf("Cannot setup prometheus API")
}
query := fmt.Sprintf("%s{namespace_name=\"%s\", configuration_name=\"%s\", revision_name=\"%s\"},metric, test.ServingNamespace, names.Config, names.Revision)
val, err := prometheus.RunQuery(context.Background(), logger, promAPI, query)
if err != nil {
	logger.Infof("Error querying metric %s: %v", metric, err)
}
```

## Displaying metrics

Once the test is done, each test can define which metrics they want to be
captured and shown on testgrid. For each metric, create a
[testgrid testcase](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/blob/master/shared/testgrid/testgrid.go)
by using the
[CreatePerfTestCase() method](https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/test/performance/performance.go).

For eg.

```go
testName := "TestPerformanceLatency"
var tc []testgrid.TestCase
for name, val := range metrics {
	tc = append(tc, CreatePerfTestCase(val, name), testName))
}
```

Once we create all the test cases for the metrics, we can use the
[CreateTestgridXML() method](https://github.com/knative/test-infra/blob/master/shared/testgrid/testgrid.go)
to create the output xml that will be used as input to testgrid. If the test is
run locally, it will create a file called `junit_<testName>.xml` and save it
locally under `knative/serving/test/performance/artifacts/`(Note that this will
create a directory called artifacts, if not present. Will use the existing one,
if present). When the test is run with Prow, this file will be stored with the
other artifacts generated by Prow like the build log.

For eg.

```go
if err = testgrid.CreateTestgridXML(tc, testName); err != nil {
	t.Fatalf("Cannot create output xml: %v", err)
}
```

All the metrics are appended in the junit_knative.xml file and can be seen on
[testgrid](#Testgrid)

## Adding performance tests

Performance tests are simple go tests, that use [Fortio](#load-generator) for
generating load and [Tesgrid](#displaying-metrics) to see the metrics on a
continuous basis. For whitebox tests, the performance tests also bring up the
prometheus service along with knative-serving. So, you can
[query prometheus](#prometheus-metrics) to get server side metrics with the load
generator metrics.

## Testgrid

Knative uses [testgrid](https://testgrid.knative.dev) to show all its metrics.
Performance metrics are shown on a separate tab for each repo like
[serving](https://testgrid.knative.dev/knative-serving#performance). It will
pick up the junit_knative.xml file generated by the tests and display the metric
and the value in the grid in the performance tab automatically.
